What is Data Profiling
It is a process of reviewing data from an existing source, understanding its structure, content  and relationships.
collecting descriptive statistics - Datatypes, lengths, patterns



Data Profiling :- 
It is used to understand completeness and consistency of data
- Understand structure 
- content of data
- Patterns in Data
- how many distinct,non distinct  and nullvalues

What is Data Goverance
Establishing  policies and procedures to manage data's use , access and lifecycle across the organization
It is a process of managing the avaliability, usability and security of data in organization systems based on the pre-defined policies and standards.

What is Data Silo
A data silo is a collection of data  controlled by department or business unit and and isolated from the rest of an organization.

What is Data quality
Ensuring data is clean, consistent, accurate and reliable 

--Limitations of incorrect data
Inventory issues
Failing to understand trends

What is Data security
Protecting the sensitive data and ensuring complaiance and privacy regulations

What is Datalife Cycle

Datalife cycle begins with acquiring or creating data, then it is stored.
Data can be structured, unstructured, semi structured formats . Generally 80% of oraganizations data is unstructured format

What is Data management

Data management is the process of efficiently and securely collecting, organizing, storing and maintaining data 
throughout its lifecycle.
Ensure data is accurate, accessible and usable for decision making and analysis

Data management is an administrative process that includes acquiring, validating, storing, protecting, and processing required data to ensure
accessibility, reliability and timeliness of the data for its users.

Major Function of Data Owners create policies, put them in force for all data in an organization

What is Data Retention
Retain data as long as as its needed

Data Stewardship -> Ownership
Data policy - > Set of Guidelines
Data standards -> 
Metadata Mgmt -> 
Data Lineage - > Traceability of data
Data Cataloging -> Business Glossary
Data Quality
Data Security - > PII

HIPAA - Data privacy regulatory in health care
Data Sensitivity/PII
Data Discovery
Flag/Label
mask

Data Goverance : 
 1. Data Security : The process of ensuring data privacy and confidentiality
 2. Data Quality : The process of ensuring data accuracy, consistency and completeness
 3. Data Lineage : The process of tracking data from its source to its destination
 4. Data Discovery : The process of identifying data assests  and their relationship
 5. Data stewardship : The process of managing data assets and their use


Data Quality Dimensions : Accuracy, Validity, Completeness, Consistency, Uniqueness, Timeliness
Dimension 	How its measured
Accuracy	 How well does a piece of information reflect reality?
Completeness	Does it fullfill user's expectations as to how fully represents the truth
Consistency	Does information stored in one place match relevant data stored elsewhere
Timeliness	Is your information availble when users need it
Validity 	Is information in a specific format, does it follow business rules or is it in an unusable fomat
Uniqueness	Is this only instance in which this informaion appears in the database



