What is Enterprise Data?
Enterprise Data is data centered in one location and acessible to users of an oraganization.

Enterprise Data is comprised of

1. Master Data - It is set of identifiers that provide context about business data such as locatio, customer, product, asset etc
2. Transactional Data - It captures every single event that happen
3. Meta Data - Provides information about data
4. Reference Data - It is data that provides possible list of values for a field e.g. country field
5. Unstructured Data - Raw data, which doesn't have structure e.g photos, email


What is Master Data?
Single version of Truth of data across multiple system. Golden record. It is core data essential for running operations 

Master data Domains - Vendor, customer, products

How do we define a field as master data ?
1. Infrequently changing data
2. shared by many applications that store information for business

e.g customer - number, name, address, phone

Customer Master data (CMD) - It contains information about customer/buyer 

Data Object = Table e.g customer, product

MDM Data Hub - Completeness of master data is stored

Data Goverance and Stewwardship - Manage and moniter Data quality

Most prominently the Data Owner and the Data Steward maintains the Master data, where several people would be allocated to each role,
each person responsible for a subset of Master Data (e.g. one data owner for employee master data, another for customer master data)

A data steward is a member of the information technology staff who manages the standard of data a
business collects, and the procedures followed to do so. They keep an eye on every step of the data collection
process to make sure that the information is sorted and formatted according to the company's requirements. In addition, data
stewards are in charge of handling data concerns including managing data corruption or transferring data between applications.


One solution to centralize and synchronize data is Master Data Management.

MDM	Meant to deal with different kind of data quality issues i.e. consistency and synchronization problem	
DQ - Deals with cleansing and standardizing data. Usually focuses on batch data modifications during data movement.

Talend MDM is open source tool

Poor Data quality will result in inaccurate analytics

Informatica MDM three tier model is the Hub console a part of? The UI/Web layer includes a set of tools that
allow users to configure the environment and perform data management activities.
--Match & Merge process
Match process helps to consolidate records coming from multiple sources.
There are 2 ways to do so
1. Batch 2. API(SOAP -> search Match, Best result -> action = match)

Two Types of matching
1.  Fuzzy 2. Exact



