What is Master Data?
Core Business entities 
Data describing most important business entities of the enterprise. This data is stable and rarely changes.If changes
change needs to be propagated.

Single version of Truth of data across multiple system. Golden record. It is core data essential for running operations 
One solution to centralize and synchronize data is Master Data Management.
e.g party, product , location
Master data Domains - Vendor, customer, products

Why MDM?
MDM helps in oragnization in consistent and accurate data aross the systems for better decision making


MDM solution
MDM creates a central repository for master data, feeding accurate and consistent data to all applications. 
It resolves conflicts based on defined rules and simplifies mergers and acquisitions.

--Benefits of MDM 
Reduce operational cost
Customer satisfaction
Inaccurate, inconsistent, and unsynchronized master data across applications leads to errors, 
inefficiencies, and customer dissatisfaction.

--MDM Implementation

1.Identify sources and consumers of master data.
2.Profile data entities (data types, attributes, owners).
3.Establish data governance (decision-making committee, processes).
4.Select tools for managing master data, data quality, versioning, hierarchies.
5.Design and implement a scalable MDM infrastructure.
6.Configure matching rules to handle duplicates and missed matches.
7.Assign data stewards to review and maintain master data.
8.Implement processes for ongoing maintenance and updates.

what is MDM HUb
MDM Hub is a DB that manages master data in a DB and keeps it in sync with transactional systems that use master data.

How do we define a field as master data ?

1. Infrequently changing data
2. shared by many applications that store information for business
e.g customer - number, name, address, phone

What is Enterprise Data?
Enterprise Data is data centered in one location and acessible to users of an oraganization.

Enterprise Data  - 

1. Transactional Data - Daily transactions - Billing, payments, orders - This is stored in OLTP tables, operational side of the data. 
2. Reference data - Set permissible values - e.g. Country codes, Fixed conversion rates
3. Meta Data  - Data about data, connection objects, 
4. Master Data  - Core data that is essential run the  operations in business e.g - Product, customer, asset

--Types of MDM
MDM for Customer - Customer Data Integration(CDI)
MDM for vendor - Vendor Data Integration (VDI)
MDM for Product - Product information mgmt (PIM)


what is MDM HUb
MDM Hub is a DB that manages master data in a DB and keeps it 
in sync with transactional systems that use master data

Operational MDM -solutions that focus on managing operational 
master data supporting transactional applications

Transactional MDM - This focus on analytical master data.
